== README

This README would normally document whatever steps are necessary to get the
application up and running.

Things you may want to cover:

* Ruby version

* System dependencies

* Configuration

* Database creation

* Database initialization

* How to run the test suite

bundle exec rspec spec                              // All tests
bundle exec rspec spec/models                       // All tests in the models folder
bundle exec rspec spec/models/bases_spec.rb         // Run single test file

* Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

* Deployment instructions

* ...


Please feel free to use a different markup language if you do not plan to run
<tt>rake doc:app</tt>.





PITCHING ALGORITHM

Pitchers generally try to throw pitches near the corners. When ahead in the count,
pitches will try to get hitters to chase. When behind in the count, pitchers will
put more focus on throwing strikes.

The strike zone is split into 72 small zones, and the pitcher will choose one of these
zones on each pitch as the "target." The pitcher always throws to try to hit the target.

Effect of pitching attribute "location:"

The location attribute, roughly speaking, determines how well the pitcher can throw strikes.
This attribute has the following effect on the algorithm:

- Pitchers with high location will choose targets in the strike zone more often. Such a
pitcher is "aggressive," trying to get ahead of hitters and put them away early.

- Pitchers with low location will choose targets outside of the strike zone more often.
These pitchers try to get batters to chase pitches more often and they throw a higher
percentage of balls.

Effect of pitching attribute "control:"

The control attribute determines how well a pitcher can hit their spots. This has the
following effect on the algorithm:

- Pitchers with high control will be more likely to actually throw the pitch in the
zone they are aiming at (or zones close to it).

- Pitchers with low control are more wild and will be more likely to throw the pitch
in a zone that is not as close to the zone they are aiming for.

Effect of pitching attribute "intelligence:"

The intelligence attribute determines how well a pitcher understands game situations
and pitches to them. This has the following effects:

- Pitchers with high intelligence understand that hitting the corners is usually better
than throwing a pitch right down the middle. When throwing strikes, they will try to
hit the corners more often.

- Pitchers with low intelligence don't understand the importance of hitting the corners,
and therefore when they try to throw strikes, they're more likely to choose target zones
that are in the middle of the plate.

- Pitchers with high intelligence take into account individual matchups and determine
how much of an advantage they have. Factors taken into account include R/L matchup and
strength/skill of opposing hitter. These pitchers use their intelligence to pitch more
carefully to dangerous hitters, and more aggressively to weak hitters. They do this by
choosing the correct approach for the situation (more on this in the Pitcher Approach/
Objective section).

- Pitchers with low intelligence don't take into account individual matchups. They have
the same approach to every hitter. This results in more walks to weak hitters who
shouldn't be walked, more pitches in the strike zone to powerful hitters, and less
care taken in dangerous situations.


PITCHER APPROACH/OBJECTIVE

Before every pitch, the pitcher determines an "approach" to take, and an "objective" to
try to achieve. An approach outlines broad guidelines for how to pitch to the hitter,
while objectives are more specific. Let's look at approaches first:

PITCHER APPROACH TYPES

There are five main approach types: very careful, careful, normal, aggressive, and very aggressive.
At the beginning of an at-bat, the pitcher determines what approach to use. As the name
suggests, a careful approach means that the pitcher's priority is not letting the batter
get a hit. An aggressive approach means that the pitcher's priority is not walking the batter.
Here are some common situations where an intelligent pitcher would choose each approach:

- Bottom of the 9th, runner on second, tie game, 2 outs, and a powerful hitter at the plate
with a less powerful hitter on-deck.
Here, the pitcher will usually choose "very careful" because the runner on second is the winning
run, and there is strong incentive to make sure the powerful hitter doesn't get a big hit.

- Up by 1, two outs and bases empty in the 6th, and a powerful hitter at the plate.
Here, the pitcher will usually choose "careful" because it's a close game, and with no runners on
base it's not as bad to walk this hitter as it is to give up a game-tying home run.

- Middle innings, nobody on base, and a decent but not great hitter at the plate.
Here, the pitcher will usually choose "normal" (this is the approach that is most common). The situation
does not require the pitcher to pitch differently than they normally would, so the normal approach
is most appropriate.

- Up by 6 runs, 8th inning, and an average hitter at the plate.
Here, the pitcher will usually choose "aggressive" because it's late in the game and they have a
big lead, so it's better to challenge the hitter and make them get a hit rather than walk them.

- A very weak hitter is at the plate, and the game is a blowout already.
Here, the pitcher will usually choose "very aggressive" because they definitely don't want to
walk a weak hitter in a game where the outcome is almost certainly decided already.

PITCHER OBJECTIVES

A pitcher's objective is set before every pitch (as opposed to the approach, which is set
at the beginning of each at-bat). A pitcher can have the following objectives:

- Challenge the hitter
Here, the goal is to throw a strike no matter what

- Get the hitter to chase
Here, the goal is to throw a ball, with the hope of getting the hitter to swing at it
and either swing and miss or hit a weak ball in play.

- Pitch around the hitter
Here, the goal is to not allow a big hit.

- Do not walk the hitter
Here, the goal is to make sure not to walk the hitter

- Throw a ground ball
Here, the goal is to try to get the hitter to hit a ground ball (usually to get a double play)

PITCHER APPROACH + OBJECTIVE

The combination of approach and objective determines how a pitcher pitches to a batter.
For example, specific approaches lead to specific objectives (in the "very aggressive" approach,
a pitcher will usually choose the "challenge the hitter" objective, for example).

EFFECT of INTELLIGENCE on APPROACH and OBJECTIVES

However, the intelligence attribute determines how objectives and approaches are chosen.
As mentioned before, pitchers with low intelligence will always use the "normal" approach,
which generally involves challenging the hitter early in the count and when behind in the
count, and trying to get the hitter to chase when ahead in the count.

Pitchers with low intelligence will also be more likely to choose an objective that makes
no sense with the situation. For example, a pitcher with low intelligence will occasionally
try to pitch around a hitter for no reason, or try to get the hitter to chase in a 3-0 count,
or challenge a powerful hitter even when they are ahead in the count 0-2.

Pitchers with high intelligence, on the other hand, choose objectives that fit the situation
and the approach they have chosen.




- randomize between mr1, mr2, and mr3, as well as between su1 and su2

- more realistic algorithm for pitching changes (depends on pitches thrown, endurance, and whether the pitcher is doing well in the game or not). Don’t take pitchers out too early!

PITCHING CHANGES

A pitcher can be removed from the game for the following reasons:
- the pitcher is too tired to continue
- the pitcher has been pitching poorly and the manager decides to make a pitching change
- the manager decides to use a different pitcher late in the game for matchup purposes (only applies to relief pitchers)

Endurance determines how many pitches a pitcher can throw before the manager can decide to take them out of the game due to tiredness alone. Before this pitch threshold is met, a pitcher can only be removed from the game for one of the two other reasons (poor performance, or matchup reasons).

Furthermore, starting pitchers are never removed for matchup reasons before their pitch threshold is met. Therefore, the only way a starting pitcher can be removed from the game before they meet their pitch threshold (as determined by their endurance) is if they pitch poorly.

REMOVING FOR POOR PERFORMANCE

A pitcher is eligible for removal for poor performance if the following criteria are met:

- For starting pitchers: the pitcher has given up 6 or more runs in the game.
- For relief pitchers: the pitcher has given up 3 or more runs in the game.






- give the win/loss to the correct pitcher

- game should end on walk-off in the bottom of the 9th or later

- For pitchers, only display pitching attributes

- For batters, only display batting attributes (no pitch zones or pitch types either)

- Display wins/losses on pitcher page

- need to be half as many doubles
- need to be half as many triples
- max average should be a lot lower
- min average should be a little higher

Further Changes:

- Add games started and appearances to players table
- Add complete games, shutouts, no-hitters, etc. to players table
- Put L, W in game show statistics
- Starting pitcher can only get the win if they go at least 5 full innings
- Actually save pitcher win/loss based on who is in line to get the win/loss
